---
title: Contours
author: SeHoon
date: 2023-05-21 10:11:00 +0900
categories: [Vision Machine Learning, OpenCV]
tags: [machine learning, python]
math: true
mermaid: true
---

# What is Contours?
Contours are continous lines or curves that bound or cover the full boundary of an object. It can be used as<br>
**cv2.findContours(image, mode, method) -> contours, hierarchy** where<br>
+ image = input image.
+ mode = Contour retrieval mode. There is five algorithms in mode of the contour retrieval
    + RETR_EXTERNAL : Returns only extreme outer flags. All child contours are left behind.
    + RETR_LIST : Retrieves all the contours, but doesn't create any parent-child relationship. Parents and kids are equal under this rule, and they are just contours.
    + RETR_CCOMP : Retrieves all the contours and arranges them to a 2-level hierarchy. <br>
    For example, external contours of the object (its boundary) are placed in hierarchy-1. And the contours of holes inside object (if any) is placed in hierarchy-2. If any object inside it, its contour is placed again in hierarchy-1 only. And its hole in hierarchy-2 and so on.
    + RETR_TREE : Retrieves all the contours and creates a full family hierarchy list.
    + RETR_FLOODFILL
    <br><br>

+ method = Contour approximation method. There are 4 algorithms in the contour approximation method.
    + CHAIN_APPROX_NONE : Stores absolutely all the contour points.
    + CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE : Compresses horizontal, vertical, and diagonal segments and leaves only their end points.
    + CHAIN_APPROX_TC89_L1 : Applies one of the flavors of the Teh-Chin chain approximation algorithm 
    + CHAIN_APPROX_TC89_KCOS : Applies one of the flavors of the Teh-Chin chain approximation algorithm
    <br><br>
+ contours = Each contour is stored as a vector of points.
+ hierarchy = Optional output vector containing information about the image topology. It has as many elements as the number of contours.


And through that contours, we can draw contours by:<br>
**drawContours(image, contours, contouridx, color, thickness)**
+ image : Destination image.
+ contours : All the input contours.
+ contouridx : Parameter indicating a contour to draw. If it is negative, all the contours are drawn.
+ color : 	Color of the contours.
+ thickness : Thickness of lines the contours are drawn with. If it is negative, the contour interiors are drawn.
<br><br><br><br>

## Steps of Contouring
---
<br>

1. Grayscale
2. [Threshold](https://csh970605.github.io/posts/Thresholding/) or [Canny Edge Detection](https://csh970605.github.io/posts/Edge_Detecting/) to Binarize image.

<br><br><br><br>

# How to Matching Contours
Matching Contours can be done by
**cv2.matchShapes(contour1, contour2, method, parameter)** where
+ contour1, contour2 : The individual contour we are checking against.
+ method : Types of contour matching (1, 2, 3)
+ parameter : not supported now.
<br><br><br><br>

## Types of contour matching
---
<br>

+ CONTOURS_MATCH_I1(1) : $I_{1}(A,B)\ =\ \Sigma_{i=1...7}|\frac{1}{m_{i}^{A}}\ -\ \frac{1}{m_{i}^{B}} |$

+ CONTOURS_MATCH_I2(2) : $I_{2}(A,B)\ =\ \Sigma_{i=1...7}|m_{i}^{A}\ -\ m_{i}^{B}$

+ CONTOURS_MATCH_I3(3) : $I_{3}(A,B)\ =\ max_{i=1...7}\frac{|m_{i}^{A}\ -\ m_{i}^{B}|}{|m_{i}^{A}|}$

<br>

where <br>
$ M_{i}^{A}\ = sin(h_{i}^{A})\ *\ logh_{i}^{A}\\M_{i}^{B}\ = sin(h_{i}^{B})\ *\ logh_{i}^{B}$
<br>
and $ h_{i}^{A},\ h_{i}^{B} $ are the Hu moments of A and B.
<br><br><br><br>

# Transforming perspective

We can transform perspective through contours that we extracted.
<br><br><br><br>

## Steps of transforming perspective.
---
<br>

1. Approxiamte our contour above to just 4 points using [approxPolyDP](https://csh970605.github.io/posts/AC_VH/)
2. Use **getPerspectiveTransform()** and **warpPerspective()** to change perspective.
<br><br>

Then, let's see how to use both methods above.
+ **cv2.getPerspectiveTransform(src, dst)** : Calculates a perspective transform from four pairs of the corresponding points. where<br>
    + src : Coordinates of quadrangle vertices in the source image.
    + dst : Coordinates of the corresponding quadrangle vertices in the destination image.

+ **cv2.warpPerspective(src, M, dsize)** : Applies a perspective transformation to an image. where<br>
    + src : Input image.
    + M : 3×3 transformation matrix.
    + dsize : Size of the output image.

<br><br><br><br>


# Implementation

+ [Contours](https://github.com/csh970605/Modern_Computer_Vision/blob/main/OpenCV/11.%20Contours%20-%20Drawing%2C%20Hierarchy%20and%20Modes.ipynb)<br>
+ [Moments, Sorting, Approximating & Matching Contours](https://github.com/csh970605/Modern_Computer_Vision/blob/main/OpenCV/12.%20Moments%2C%20Sorting%2C%20Approximating%20and%20Matching%20Contours.ipynb)<br>
+ [Perspective Transforms](https://github.com/csh970605/Modern_Computer_Vision/blob/main/OpenCV/18.%20Perspective%20Transforms.ipynb)<br>